README.md, before:

# opcache-json

PHP 5.5 is awesome. It's fast, more modern, and has a bunch of great features. One of those new, awesome features is that it gets bundled with Zend Opcache by default— no more APC! Hooray!

But this win brings some new burden. Zend Opcache has a TON of configuration settings and monitoring them is not that easy. The default output is a little bit clunky and wasn't really designed with modern devops in mind.

## Designed for Modern Devops
This library was designed to solve that problem. It cleans up Zend Opcache's internal stats and makes it easily grabbable as JSON, which your app can choose to expose to an internal HTTP endpoint. Opcache-json also exposes this data to statsd, which you can use to view historical cache data and watch trends.

## Getting Started
The best way to install it is to use Composer and add the following to your project's `composer.json` file:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "stevencorona/opcache-json": "*"
    }
}
```
    
## Basic Usage

```php
// By default Statsd output is disabled
// $opcache = new Opcache\Status;

// Or pass in Statsd config with an array
// $opcache = new Opcache\Status(["host" => "localhost", "port" => "8125"]);

// Or configure the Statsd connection with a block
$opcache = new Opcache\Status(function() {

  $c   = new \Domnikl\Statsd\Connection\Socket("127.0.0.1", "8125");
  return new \Domnikl\Statsd\Client($c, "opcache");

});

echo $opcache->status(true);
```

## Statsd Output

Statsd output comes stock. Just configure your connection by passing a block or an array to the `Opcache\Status` constructor. The following keys are sent as gauge values to Statsd:

```
opcache.used_memory:5593056|g
opcache.free_memory:61515808|g
opcache.wasted_memory:0|g
opcache.current_wasted_percentage:0|g
opcache.num_cached_scripts:11|g
opcache.num_cached_keys:13|g
opcache.max_cached_keys:3907|g
opcache.hits:33|g
opcache.start_time:1396011952|g
opcache.last_restart_time:0|g
opcache.oom_restarts:0|g
opcache.hash_restarts:0|g
opcache.manual_restarts:0|g
opcache.misses:11|g
opcache.blacklist_misses:0|g
opcache.blacklist_miss_ratio:0|g
opcache.opcache_hit_rate:75|g
```

> **Hint:** If you have a multi-server or multi-worker environment (hint: most of us do), you probably want to add your server hostname and PHP PID to the key namespace.


## JSON Output
The JSON output is easy to ready and can be exposed as an internal HTTP endpoint, which can be consumed by human eyes or a monitoring systems. It's pretty straightforward— the output looks like this</p>

![JSON Output](http://stevencorona.github.io/opcache-json/images/screenshot.png)

#### The MIT License (MIT)

    Copyright (c) 2014 Steve Corona Inc.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
    THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

update readme to show how tests work

README.md, after:

# opcache-json

PHP 5.5 is awesome. It's fast, more modern, and has a bunch of great features. One of those new, awesome features is that it gets bundled with Zend Opcache by default— no more APC! Hooray!

But this win brings some new burden. Zend Opcache has a TON of configuration settings and monitoring them is not that easy. The default output is a little bit clunky and wasn't really designed with modern devops in mind.

## Designed for Modern Devops
This library was designed to solve that problem. It cleans up Zend Opcache's internal stats and makes it easily grabbable as JSON, which your app can choose to expose to an internal HTTP endpoint. Opcache-json also exposes this data to statsd, which you can use to view historical cache data and watch trends.

## Getting Started
The best way to install it is to use Composer and add the following to your project's `composer.json` file:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "stevencorona/opcache-json": "*"
    }
}
```
    
## Basic Usage

```php
// By default Statsd output is disabled
// $opcache = new Opcache\Status;

// Or pass in Statsd config with an array
// $opcache = new Opcache\Status(["host" => "localhost", "port" => "8125"]);

// Or configure the Statsd connection with a block
$opcache = new Opcache\Status(function() {

  $c   = new \Domnikl\Statsd\Connection\Socket("127.0.0.1", "8125");
  return new \Domnikl\Statsd\Client($c, "opcache");

});

echo $opcache->status(true);
```

## Statsd Output

Statsd output comes stock. Just configure your connection by passing a block or an array to the `Opcache\Status` constructor. The following keys are sent as gauge values to Statsd:

```
opcache.used_memory:5593056|g
opcache.free_memory:61515808|g
opcache.wasted_memory:0|g
opcache.current_wasted_percentage:0|g
opcache.num_cached_scripts:11|g
opcache.num_cached_keys:13|g
opcache.max_cached_keys:3907|g
opcache.hits:33|g
opcache.start_time:1396011952|g
opcache.last_restart_time:0|g
opcache.oom_restarts:0|g
opcache.hash_restarts:0|g
opcache.manual_restarts:0|g
opcache.misses:11|g
opcache.blacklist_misses:0|g
opcache.blacklist_miss_ratio:0|g
opcache.opcache_hit_rate:75|g
```

> **Hint:** If you have a multi-server or multi-worker environment (hint: most of us do), you probably want to add your server hostname and PHP PID to the key namespace.


## JSON Output
The JSON output is easy to ready and can be exposed as an internal HTTP endpoint, which can be consumed by human eyes or a monitoring systems. It's pretty straightforward— the output looks like this</p>

![JSON Output](http://stevencorona.github.io/opcache-json/images/screenshot.png)

## Running the tests

You -must- enable `opcache.enable_cli` to run the tests. PHP must be built with Zend Opcache.

```
$ composer install
$ ./vendor/bin/phpunit -d opcache.enable_cli=1 tests/Opcache.php
```

#### The MIT License (MIT)

    Copyright (c) 2014 Steve Corona Inc.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
    THE SOFTWARE.
